feat: module generation pipeline (#57)
MovingBlocks/ModuleSite: docs/module-generation.md

# Module Generation Automation

> The automation focuses on gathering information about modules listed as part of the `omega` distro in the [Index repository](https://github.com/Terasology/Index/blob/master/distros/omega/gradle.properties) and exhibit the generated information on the [ModuleSite](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/ModuleSite).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The automation focuses on gathering information about modules listed as part of the `omega` distro in the [Index repository](https://github.com/Terasology/Index/blob/master/distros/omega/gradle.properties) and exhibits the generated information on the [ModuleSite](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/ModuleSite).
```

Both steps are performed in a [Jenkins pipeline](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/).

The pipeline will be run periodically as a cron job, so that the ModuleSite is up-to-date with any changes in module information.

### File Structure

```
├── Jenkinsfile           - Jenkins pipeline text file
├── scrape.py             - File to scrape and sort modules and Non modules repository and to collect require information
├── frontMatter.py        - File to generate frontmatter form scraped modules
├── loadModules.sh        - supporting bash script to perform git operations
```

### Module Generation Diagram

<img src="./images/Module-Generation.png" width="450" height="500">

## Collecting Data

At the starting stage of the pipeline, the "scrape" script sends API calls to GitHub to fetch all required information from the Index repository, i.e. `module.txt`, and optionally the `README.md` and a cover image.

> If `README.md` or the cover image are not available. we will fallback to a default image and a default readme text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `README.md` or the cover image are not available, we will fallback to a default image and a default readme text.
```

Afterwards, the "frontmatter" script prepares the collected information for display on the ModuleSite.

> ## load modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Loading Modules
```

> This stage simply clone ModuleSite, copy the modules directory on cloned ModuleSite and perform git operations to push the changes on ModuleSite.All this actions are performed by `loadModules.sh`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stage simply clones the ModuleSite, copies the modules directory into the cloned ModuleSite and performs git operations to push the changes. All of these actions are performed by `loadModules.sh`.
```

## Clean Workspace

> At last the workspace is cleared so that we don't run into errors next time when the pipeline is executed.The same process is repeated periodically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At last, the workspace is cleared so that we don't run into errors next time when the pipeline is executed. The same process is repeated periodically.
```

# Module Generation Automation

The automation focuses on automating the [ModuleSite](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/ModuleSite) for gathering information about modules from [Index repository](https://github.com/Terasology/Index/blob/master/distros/omega/gradle.properties) and
exhibit their generated information on ModuleSite.This uses an automation tool called [Jenkins](https://www.jenkins.io/), which provides stages and steps in the

> pipeline to perform different operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The automation focuses on gathering information about modules listed as part of the `omega` distro in the [Index repository](https://github.com/Terasology/Index/blob/master/distros/omega/gradle.properties) and exhibit the generated information on the [ModuleSite](https://github.com/MovingBlocks/ModuleSite).
Both steps are performed in a [Jenkins pipeline](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/).
```

Author: done

> This will be a [Pipeline](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/) job that will run periodically so that if there will be any changes in module information present in the Index repository that information can be updated on ModuleSite easily.Let's try to understand Automation part deeply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pipeline will be run periodically as a cron job, so that the ModuleSite is up-to-date with any changes in module information.
```

Author: done

### File Structure

```
├── Jenkinsfile           - Jenkins pipeline text file
├── scrape.py             - File to scrape and sort modules and Non modules repository and to collect require information
├── frontMatter.py        - File to generate frontmatter form scraped modules
├── loadModules.sh        - supporting bash script to perform git operations
```

### Module Generation Diagram

<img src="./images/Module-Generation.png" width="450" height="500">

## Collecting Data

> At the starting stage of the pipeline some scripts will be triggered which will create API calls to Github Index repository to fetch all the required information i.e. `module.txt, Readme, cover image` if `Readme, cover image` will not be available we will fallback to default image and default readme text.Next step will be to prepare Readme file to display that collected infromation on ModuleSite.An new script will br triggered that will prepare information that are going to displayed on ModuleSite. As you see above file structure we have `scrape.py` and `frontmatter.py` which will perform this opertaions. `scrape.py` uses [PyGithub](https://pygithub.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) to create API calls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the starting stage of the pipeline, the "scrape" script sends API calls to GitHub to fetch all required information from the Index repository, i.e. `module.txt`, and optionally the `README.md` and a cover image.
If `README.md` or the cover image are not available. we will fallback to a default image and a default readme text.
Afterwards, the "frontmatter" script prepares the collected information for display on the ModuleSite.
```

Author: done

## Generate Artifact

This stage tries to copy the [artifact](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/pipeline/tour/tests-and-artifacts/) of last successful build, if it does not found any artifact it create
new artifact of current build and create pull request to the ModuleSite using the supporting bash script `loadModules.sh`. If it gets the last successful build

> , it compares the current build and the last successful build, if their is anu changes between the build, the last successful build is removed and current build is archived and create pull request to ModuleSite.

Reviewer: This is not up-to-date anymore.

Author: changed
